{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \\section\{Introduction\}\
 Between 2006 and 2011, I spent five years working  in London. During this time, I personally assisted to the transformation of some neighbourhoods from being unappealing and relatively affordable to being full of new stores, bars, services and expensive. I was living in an ex- council house in N1, where us, young professionals, would share the neibourhood with what appeared to be low income families, whose life-style, interest and needs were very different from ours. I liked the mix of different social backgrounds, but I also perceived a sort of awkward feeling, as being an intruder in someone else\'92s space.  \\\\\
I later learnt that what I was experiencing was an economic and social phenomenon common in many cities across the world, called \'93gentrification\'94 (I was actually \'93gentrifying\'94). Coined by Ruth Glass in 1964 in her book \'93London: aspects of changes\'94 \\citep\{glass1964aspects\}, gentrification refers to demographic shift in an urban community and it has spawned an extensive field of urban research (see \\cite\{hamnett1991blind\} and \\cite\{lupton2004we\} for a literature review). Gentrification describes the process by which some urban areas, traditionally inhabited by lower income class, start to be desirable by some pioneers of the middle class, attracted mainly by low rents. These people, with more income available, bring the prices up causing the displacement of the lower income people, also causing a shift in the type of stores and services provided in the area. The character of the place changes and long term residents are progressively replaced by the new comers. When this process is very fast, it can lead to personal catastrophes such as forced displacement, eviction or homelessness but also more subtle frictions between new and old residents, who belong to different cultures and upbringings. If this process affects a large part of the city, it can lead to a loss of social diversity and to lower income residents being confined in the outer areas of the city where accessibility and opportunities are reduced.\\\\\
The idea of the project came from the book \'93London: The Information Capital\'94 by \\cite\{cheshire2014london\}. Amongst the hundred maps of London, one in particular caught my attention: two bubble graphs showing the prevalence of certain words in the name of food premises across London. Based on the Food Agency database which stores the names of food premises, their geo-location and their hygiene score, the graphs show that some keywords such as chicken or kebab, are prevalent in poorer area where others such as restaurant appear more frequently in richer areas. After reviewing other project ideas, we decided with the group to see what the name of food places had to tell us about different areas of London.\
}